---
layout:     post
title:      CS61A笔记
subtitle:   
date:       2021-12-12
author:     bjmsong
header-img: img/cs/cs.jpeg
catalog: true
tags:
    - Computer Science
---
>伯克利的计算机入门课程，网上评价很好
>教材一共四章，大部分来自Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs (SICP) 
http://composingprograms.com/
>网上找了很多个版本，最后找到2018Spring这个版本，老师的语速较慢，讲得比较清楚
https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV16W411W76H?p=7&spm_id_from=pageDriver
>课程总共有15周
https://www-inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs61a/sp18/

## Chapter1：Building Abstractions with Functions
Functions encapsulate logic that manipulates data

### 1.1 Getting Started
- debugging：Learning to interpret errors and diagnose the cause of unexpected errors 
- guiding principles of debugging：
    - Test incrementally：单元测试
    - Isolate errors: trace the error to the smallest fragment of code you can before trying to correct it
    - Check your assumptions
    - Consult others ： StackOverflow. A lot of valuable programming knowledge is shared in the process of group problem solving.

### 1.2 Elements of Programming
- the means that the language provides for combining simple ideas to form more complex ideas. Every powerful language has three such mechanisms:
    - primitive expressions and statements, which represent the simplest building blocks that the language provides
    - means of combination, by which compound elements are built from simpler ones
    - means of abstraction, by which compound elements can be named and manipulated as units
- call expression： applies a function to some arguments
- The Python Standard Library
https://docs.python.org/3/library/index.html
- 第三方库
https://pypi.org/
- Environment. interpreter must maintain some sort of memory that keeps track of the names, values, and bindings
- Non-pure functions. In addition to returning a value, applying a non-pure function can generate side effects, which make some change to the state of the interpreter or computer. A common side effect is to generate additional output beyond the return value
    - eg: print()

### 1.3 Defining New Funcions
- Function Signatures. A description of the formal parameters of a function


### 1.4 Designing Functions
- the qualities of good functions all reinforce the idea that functions are abstractions
    - Each function should have exactly one job. That job should be identifiable with a short name and characterizable in a single line of text. 
    - Don't repeat yourself (DRY). multiple fragments of code should not describe redundant logic
    - Functions should be defined generally.
- Documentation


### 1.5 Control
- Conditional Statements
- Iteration
- Testing. is the act of verifying that the function's behavior matches expectations
    - assert
    - Doctests. placing simple tests directly in the docstring of a function
    - A test that applies a single function is called a unit test
    - good practice to write some tests before you implement


### 1.6 Higher-Order Functions: Functions that manipulate functions
- Functions as Arguments
- Nested Definitions
    - lexical scoping. sharing names among nested definitions. the inner functions have access to the names in the environment where they are defined
    - locally defined functions are often called closures. 
- Functions as Returned Values
- Example：Newton's Method
- Currying
    - given a function f(x, y), we can define a function g such that g(x)(y) is equivalent to f(x, y). Here, g is a higher-order function that takes in a single argument x and returns another function that takes in a single argument y
    - currying is useful when we require a function that takes in only a single argument. For example, the map pattern applies a single-argument function to a sequence of values.
    - automate currying
- Lambda Expression
    - Python style prefers explicit def statements to lambda expressions, but allows them in cases where a simple function is needed as an argument or return value
    - Such stylistic rules are merely guidelines; you can program any way you wish
    - When you can make your program easier to understand, you do those people a favor
- Abstractions and First-Class functions 
    - Elements with the fewest restrictions are said to have first-class status
    - Some of the "rights and privileges" of first-class elements are:
    They may be bound to names.
    They may be passed as arguments to functions.
    They may be returned as the results of functions.
    They may be included in data structures.
    - Python awards functions full first-class status
- Function Decorators
    - special syntax to apply higher-order functions as part of executing a def statement
    
### 1.7 Recursive Functions
- 
- 


## Chapter2：Building Abstractions with Data
An object seamlessly bundles together data and the logic that manipulates that data





## Chapter3：Interpreting Computer Programs
A program that implements such a procedure, evaluating compound expressions, is called an interpreter





## Chapter4：Data Processing


## 参考资料
